taking you live to T Aviv to listen to
the press conference uh between uh Lloyd
Austin and yav Galant they have been
meeting today while Lloyd Austin has
been in Tel Aviv let's listen in
Secretary
Austin the United States and Israel have
never been more determined and align in
our share values our share interest and
our share goals my friend General
atin you have shown the people of Israel
and the entire world what is what it
means to be a leader and a
partner there is no greater projection
of our intimate ties than sitting
together with General Brown and general
Levy discussing the most sensitive
issues on the
agenda in full transparency and
Trust thank you secretary for your deep
commitment to Israel's
security we stand here 72 days into a
war that we didn't
want on October 7th Hamas conduct a
brutal attack they murdered raped and
kidnapped children
women soldiers Holocaust survivors on
October 7th we fought back and
immediately set the goals of this war
the destruction of Hamas and the return
of the hostages home with no
exception our common enemies around the
world are watching and they know that
Israel
Victory is the victory of the Free World
led by the United States of
America in in our in our war against
Hamas the Hamas terrorist
organization is a war not it's not a war
against the people of Gaza we are
fighting a brutal enemy that Hinds
behind
civilians billions of dollars have been
invested in
Gaza money that should have gone to
civilian infrastructure and instead was
used to build a network of tunnel
hundreds of kilometers long equipped by
military
facilities today IDF troops are
operating in Hamas hotspots across Gaza
in Northern Gaza our troops have
eliminate thousands of terrorists
destroyed military
infrastructure and this this man
most of the battalions operating in the
area in South Gaza in Junes we are
perise and focus on eliminate Hamas
leadership and Military
infrastructure detecting and engaging
Hamas leadership and the chain of
command span over the phases of this war
and will
continue until we fully achieve our
goals
secretary Austin we both know the the
complexities of War we both fought
brutal terrorist organization we know
that it takes time unlike our enemies we
are defending our values and we operate
according to international law the IDF
is operating to minimize the harm to
civilian popul
population we are also working with
International Partners to facilitate the
delivery of humanitarian Aid yet anytime
we discuss humanitarian issues we must
remember the
129 hostages will held in Gaza this is
the most humanitarian
issue on October fa a day after Hamas
attack kisala open fire
unprovoked the threats of rockets
missiles and drones is
unacceptable over 80 80,000 citizens
have been in displaced living as
refugees in their own country we are
determined to create a new reality
restoring Security in the area based on
new UN resolution
1701 pushing backis
balah we will bring back the residents
of the north to their homes on the
border after full Security will be
restored we prefer to do so
via understanding ensuring that the
Border region is clear of terrorist and
does not allow direct threats of our
citizens if such a process will not be
implemented diplomatically we will not
hesitate to
act today we also discuss the growing
Global threat posed by the htis
terrorist
organization their
action threaten International Freedom of
navigation and their Reckless Behavior
fire ing ballistic missiles cruise
missiles and drones against Israel can
drag the region into war the state of
Israel values us
leadership and we will support
International efforts at the same time
we maintain the right to take all the
actions necessary to defend our
sovereignity and our
citizens
Hamas kisala and the htis are funded
supported and trained by one source of
evil
Iran and
unfortunately this is only their
secondary effort Iran's major effort is
acquiring military nuclear
capabilities and this continue even
now we are aware of the actions and we
will we are ready to defend
ourself we must take a stand the world
is watching us now this include our
enemies Hamas hisis balah and Iran the
image they see today is powerful as we
stand here
united we are resilient and determined
and we will win on every front thank you
on once again Mr secretary thank you for
coming and thank you for your support
and your friendship thank you very
much well good afternoon everybody you
have we've been talking almost daily by
phone so it's good to see you once again
in
person and it's good to be back in
Israel even in these difficult
days especially in these difficult
days this is my fourth visit to Israel
as Secretary of Defense and my second
time since October
7th and I know that Israel has been
profoundly changed from where you were
on October
6th so I'm here with a clear
message America's support for Israel
security is
unshakable and
Israel is not
alone at a time of
morning a real friend shows up and I
know how terrible these days have been
for the Israeli people and I know that
October 7th touched everyone in the
small
democracy so let me again extend my
deepest condolences to minister GTI
Eisen
Cott who has been sitting shivba for his
25 year-old son and mourning his nephew
after they both fell in Gaza
on October 7th amas committed one of the
worst atrocities in the history of
modern
terrorism as President Biden
said it was an act of sheer
evil innocent young people at a concert
were
massacred parents were shot in front of
their
children women were sexually
assaulted Toddlers and Holocaust
Survivors
were taken
hostage and for
Hamas that was just the
beginning Hamas has clearly and loudly
spelled out its vision of the
future and it is to repeat October 7th
over and over and over
again no country should tolerate such a
danger and Israel has every right to
defend itself against a fanatical
terrorist group whose stated purpose is
to murder Jews and eradicate the Jewish
State Hamas is still holding hostages
including American
citizens Hamas embeds
itself and hides
itself behind innocent Palestinian
civilians Hamas does not speak for the
Palestinian people and Hamas is
determined to Doom both Israelis and
Palestinians to an unending cycle of
suffering and
strife so make no
mistake Hamas should never again be able
to project Terror from Gaza into the
sovereign state of
Israel and we will continue to work
together for a safer more secure future
for Israel and a brighter future for the
Palestinians the United States will keep
keep pushing relentlessly for the safe
return of hostages in
Gaza and we will continue to help Israel
in its efforts to bring them all
home thanks to the personal leadership
of President Biden we helped to broke a
deal that got out more than a 100
hostages but this remains a top priority
for the United States from President
Biden on
down and we will continue to do
everything that we can to bring home
every man every woman and every child
seized by
Hamas now the United States has been
clear and consistent since Hamas started
this war on October
7th democracies are stronger and more
secure when we uphold the law of
war and I've as I've said protecting
Palestinian civilians in Gaza is both a
moral duty and a strategic
imperative so we will continue to stand
up for Israel's Bedrock right to defend
itself and we will also continue to urge
the protection of civilians during
conflict and to increase the flow of
humanitarian Aid into
Gaza that's important as Israel fights
to dismantle the Hamas ter terrorist
infrastructure in Gaza and it will also
be crucial for our work with our allies
and partners after the fighting
stops now we're working to ensure that
this conflict does not escalate Beyond
Gaza but as we are driving to stabilize
the region Iran is Raising tensions by
continuing to support terrorist groups
and
militias attacks by these Iranian
proxies threaten the Region's citizens
and risk a broader conf
conflict of course the United States
does not seek
war and we urgently call on Iran to take
steps to
deescalate now in my meetings today I
also discussed the need to take urgent
action to stabilize the West
Bank attacks by extremist settlers
against the Palestinians in the West
Bank must
stop and those committing the violence
must be held
accountable
now we know that the past 72 days have
been some of the most painful days in
Israel's
history but it would compound this
tragedy if all that was waiting for the
Israeli people and your Palestinian
Neighbors at the end of this awful war
was more
insecurity Fury and
despair as I've said Israelis and
Palestinians have both paid to Bitter a
price to just go back to October
6th so I discussed Pathways today toward
a future for Gaza after Hamas based upon
the clear principles laid down last
month by my friend secretary
blinkin Israelis and Palestinians both
deserve a horizon of
hope so the United States continues to
believe as we have under administrations
of both parties that it is in the
interest of both Israelis and
Palestinians to move forward toward two
states living side by side in Mutual
Security now we know how hard that
is especially after October
7th but ongoing instability and
insecurity only play into the hands of
Hamas so we must think together about
what lies Beyond this terrible season of
Terror and War and as we do the United
States will remain deeply committed to
the security and self-defense of the
state of
Israel as John F Kennedy said in
1960 America's friendship with Israel is
a national
commitment that was true
then and it's even truer
now the United States will remain
Israel's closest friend in the
world as I've said repeatedly our
support for Israel's security remains
unshakable and it always will thank you
very much and we'll be happy to take
your
questions um all right we'll start now
with klyn
betel um thank you secretary Austin
welcome to
Israel um it's not a secret that there
is a gap between Israel and the US so
have you set any sort of either time
table or deadline to the current phase
of Israel ground war in Gaza and have
you heard any firm assessment from the
IDF where the current phase stand and if
I may with regard to the north um Israel
says and and Minister Gallant has just
repeated that it will attack Lebanon if
there won't be an acceptable solution
that will include theala withdrawal
North to the Lan River Jake salivan was
here last week and he was quite
confident that such a solution can be
achieved uh what is the US the US
position if Israel attack and will you
order the US Army to strike and even
destroy hisis Bala and Iranian Target if
required and uh Minister Gallant um it
took the IDF 70 days to reach the tunnel
that was uh revealed yesterday how long
do you think it take to totally
dismantle the threat of the tunnel in
will R will rule Gaza and will the IDF
be in Gaza throughout the entire next
year thank you very
much which one of those 12 questions do
you want me to ask I have
more regarding the
timeline this is Israel's
operation and I'm not here to dictate
timelines or
terms our support uh to Israel's right
to defend itself is Ironclad as you've
heard me say a number of times and
that's not going to change
it's critical as I said earlier that H
Hamas not be able to threaten
Israel from
Gaza or even threaten Gaza anymore you
know that's an interest that we all
share it's a common interest with all of
us and so today we had great discussions
about the status of the
campaign
about goals and objectives and about um
how to reduce uh harm to civilians uh in
the battle space uh and to and the need
to
ensure uh a sustained flow of
humanitarian assistance uh into
Gaza you know we can offer some insight
based upon our own experience in
fighting terrorist groups and certainly
uh that enabled us to have great uh
great
discussions and we also have some great
thoughts about
um how to transition from high-intensity
operations to a lower intensity and more
surgical operations so we had uh great
discussions on all of those uh those
issues on Lebanon uh we've been clear
that uh we don't want to see this
conflict widen into a a uh larger war or
a regional war and uh and we call upon
uh Hezbollah uh to make sure that uh
they don't do things that would provoke
a wider
conflict yes as to the first uh first
question let me be more precise it took
us 70 days before we exposed this tunnel
to the public it was discovered longer
period before that after a month or so
but we had a lot of
uh uh a lot of operations to be done
inside inside the tunnel before we
expose it h the war will take time and
uh I can assure only one issue that uh
eventually we will reach our gos uh
first of all to destroy Hamas second to
rescue the hostages both of them are
very important
equally uh this is a war of uh National
determination and National resilience
and uh we will prevail because we are
fighting for the right values and uh for
our survival in this region as to the
second
question uh we understand how important
is the uh
cooperation uh the international uh
support to establish something something
different in Gaza this is the reason we
conduct this uh this uh
uh uh talks today together with
secretary Austin and general b and Mr
safield and others regarding the issues
that we have to uh to conduct in in Gaza
ER we know that Hamas will not control
Gaza we know that we will have have the
freedom to eliminate any kind of threat
in the future and there will be
no serious military threats against
Israel from Gaza second Israel will not
control
Gaza in in any civilian way we will
conduct any any
needed operation and Military effort in
order to secure our future and we are
building
the routes for uh non-hostile Partners
in in the other
side thank you Tera cop if we can also
please stick to one question each please
thank
you thank you Minister glant back to
Lebanon um are you currently planning
for a ground operation in the north to
as you said fully secure that area from
Hezbollah secretary Austin if that
ground operation is launched just to um
repeat my colleague's question what role
would US forces have in uh such a case
and then is it too dangerous right now
Minister Gant to open a second front in
the north when you have troops committed
in the south in Gaza and my final one
for secretary Austin um another
commercial vessel today was attacked in
the Red Sea and US warships continue to
intercept ballistic missiles and drones
that are fired from houthi controlled
Yemen
why hasn't the US struck back or
conducted a Counter Strike like it has
against similar Iranian backed militants
in Iraq and
Syria
uh I uh I would like to reiterate what I
said I said that diplomacy is the
preferred way we uh we are not looking
for Wars but we have
70,000 Israeli refugees andala is
shooting us every day since October 88 a
day after Hamas launch the war against
Israel therefore in one hand we are
patient and uh we are looking for a
diplomacy solution that will uh make
sure that his balah is not threaten
Israeli uh civilians on the Northern
Communities Direct ly on the other hand
we are preparing ourself to any any
situation that is needed and uh if
something like that happened uh we will
know what to do and we will prevail we
we are not looking for anything similar
to that and we hope that balah will
understand it it's time to
stop uh thanks s uh regarding the who
boties um these attacks are
Reckless dangerous and they violate
international law and so we're taking
action to uh build an International
Coalition to address this threat and I
would remind you that this is not just a
US
issue uh this is this is an
international problem and it deserves an
international uh
response uh and that's why uh I'm
convening a meeting
tomorrow uh ministerial meeting with
fellow ministers in the region and
Beyond uh to uh to address this threat
uh we're uh uh that'll be a virtual
meeting and I look forward to that
discussion and more important I look
forward to uh working together uh with
uh uh members of that uh of that uh
group uh to address the threat in a
meaningful way in the future and we'll
have more details on this soon but uh
we're going to make sure that we're
doing everything that we can to
uh ensure uh freedom of navigation uh in
the area uh the straight is uh Straits
are pretty pretty important as we know
as you know a large amount of Commerce
flows through their International
Commerce flows through their on a daily
basis
thanks y Bob y Bob from the Jerusalem
Post good to see you again uh Mr
secretary there's been a lot of
discussion about getting Israel's intent
to reduce civilian casualties to match
up with the results General Petraeus
famously said that sometimes the US
needs to take hits on Force protection
to win over hearts and Minds legitimacy
you're probably familiar that just
recently about 10 Israeli soldiers died
in one Ambush and a lot of people in
Israel were saying if the Israeli
Defense Forces had just bombed the area
they wouldn't have died is is this the
kind of thing you know War doesn't have
Perfect Solutions that sometimes the
United States may think that Israel may
need to take more hits to force
protection instead of being as
aggressive with um its Air Force and
artillery um Minister Gant good to see
you um the United States in its most
respectful way possible is trying to
push Israel on certain timelines on
certain things about uh the day after um
is it maybe time that that uh yourself
and the government need to tell Israel
that even though we've had tremendous
successes in the field we may not
actually control all of Gaza at the end
of January we may not get all of the
hostages back at the end of January some
of these things may continue in the 3 to
nine months afterwards the what they
call schav gimo the third
stage so for the first part of the
question in terms of um the nature of
the
strikes uh and and the amount of
collateral damage I think uh let me
Begin by saying the protection of our
troops is important to all of us uh
Minister Gant me all of us uh and uh and
that is
foremost um but what we see happening is
a combination of two things the first
thing is the complexity of of this
battle space three-dimensional battle
space uh very closed uh closed spaces uh
dense population of people uh and uh and
so that's that makes it very very
difficult uh to uh to conduct any uh
military
operation above and beyond that we see
that um Hamas
routinely uh uses civilians as as
shields uh beyond that they Place their
headquarters and and their logistical
sites uh near uh protected sites
hospitals mths churches uh you name it
and so that adds to the to the
complexity and as you as you youve heard
Jake Sullivan say it's a it provides an
additional burden for uh for the uh the
forces that are Prosecuting this fight
uh it requires a very professional force
and that Force has to learn each uh each
step of the way and we've seen that and
and Minister Gant and I had a great
conversation today about some of the
things that they've learned and some of
the techniques that they're that they're
uh you know changing and as as they uh
conduct operations in the South so all
of us learn and and uh and again they
were a very professional Force going
into this but this is a an incredible uh
complex battle space and taking lessons
learned from the north they've they've
applied some of those lessons in the
South and uh and again uh I'm sure that
that'll continue to
happen well first of all the discussions
are uh are transparent and Frank and uh
on the personal level I have a lot to
learn from General Austin so I'm
learning also and he always give me good
advises therefore we share everything
and uh we
consult uh second uh on the on the on
the battlefield we have a uh a very
meaningful uh uh and successful uh
achievement uh we uh we detect thousands
of terrorists including cluding senior
commanders but not the leadership the
eliminate Hamas leadership is an ongoing
goal that will be achieved hopefully
soon but it will be achieved it's part
of the goals of the war and uh we will
continue to operate in different levels
of intensity according to the situation
the in the region and uh I I can tell
you that uh
uh uh soon we will be able to to
distinguish between different areas in
in Gaza in every area uh where we
achieve our mission we will be able to
uh transition
gradually uh to the next phase and start
working uh on bringing back local
population that means that it can be
achieved maybe sooner in the north
rather than in the South so
we are dealing with all the different
components and we will decide in the
next in the next future early
Future No I'm I'm I'm not I'm not
defining any any any region and uh this
is an ongoing discussion but I give you
an idea about what we are discussing in
the Israeli military establishment and
together with the
Americans mosa
Gaines thank you mosha gains with the
NBC News uh Minister Gant what are the
benchmarks for moving to the next phase
of this war does that mean that you have
to take out top Hamas leadership to be
able to move on and what specifically is
keeping Israel from moving to more
precise and targeted operations against
Hamas and then secretary Austin based on
your experience in Iraq and what you
discussed today what metrics should
Israel be using to know that it's the
right time to transition from major
combat operations and what are the risk
particularly to civilian protection and
lastly would you say that Israel is on
track for a strategic victory in
Gaza
uh you want me to go
first always
okay well Mo I will uh I I'll let uh
Minister Gant speak
to uh the elements of their campaign
um and how they're going to conduct
operation but I would tell you that you
know we all know that any military
operation any large scale military
operation uh will have uh phases to its
campaign and as you go from one phase to
the next uh you know your your stance
shifts a little bit your activity uh uh
shifts a little bit because you're you
you begin to focus on on different
things and what those things are they'll
be defined by by uh by the Israelis um
but as you transition from one phase to
another it doesn't mean that
um that I mean that doesn't signal an
end to the operation uh it it it
sometimes means that you're being more
more precise you're being or more F more
focused on a specific Target set you're
doing different things during that
campaign uh for example on on in in one
phase you may have a higher intensity
fighting uh both air and ground in
another phase uh you may shift a little
bit and then and then uh provide more
humanitarian assistance that while still
focused on a discret set of targets
again I'm not saying that that's what uh
that's what they would be looking at
going forward I will let the Israelis
Define their uh their their campaign and
the phases of the campaign for
themselves but but in any operation like
this any any campaign uh there will be
phases and and the most difficult part
uh is as you as you shift from one phase
to the next making sure that uh that you
have everything accounted for and you
get it right so that's that's uh that's
that requires detailed planning and very
thoughtful planning and Sir over to you
thank you
uh the goals are the goals for the war
that mean means that by the end of the
war as long as it takes we need to make
sure that we have our hostages back that
we eliminate the Hamas abilities and
that include destroying Hamas military
capability and its ability to govern in
in Gaza and it have certain parameters
including the amount of Battalion uh
battalions that we we need to dismantle
and the the chain of command and and the
Supreme military leadership and so for
and so on the phases are the technique
ER which is part of the plan that we
have to to deploy in the in the area in
order to achieve our goals and uh as
secretary Austin said this is only the
the way that we shape our plan in order
to achieve the goals and uh as it
happened in the battlefield the
circumstan are changing you change your
efforts and you do something different
in a different phase and the intensity
in the first phase is is given but in in
other phases we will concentrate on
certain issue for for instance the the
engaging and and detecting the the
Supreme leadership of Hamas and others
so all and all H there is no uh there is
not no ER uh clock that is running and
uh we have to uh to obey a certain day
but we need to get to different
performances on the ground before we
move to the to the next phase and I
believe that we will find a proper time
to do so and the most important issue as
I mentioned in the beginning we will we
will prevail we will dismantle Hamas
otherwise we will not be able to exist
and live in the way we want to live in
this region because there is a price to
deterr and they need to know that if
they kill or kidnap 1500 people
including kids and women this is the end
of
Hamas thank you very much
everyone okay so you were just listening
to a press conference being held in Tel
Aviv that is the uh us defense secretary
Austin standing alongside the Israeli
defense minister yav Galant they were
both addressing the media uh in Tel Aviv
um here's some of what the Secretary of
Defense the US Secretary of Defense had
to say uh he did say that we will not
impose conditions or Tim taes related to
the Israeli War on Gaza on the issue of
the uh threat that's coming from the Red
Sea according to them it's a threat the
US defense secretary said that we are
building a coalition to address uh that
threats from the Red Sea and uh one more
issue that was raised in that press
conference is uh hasbalah in Lebanon the
US defense secretary as well as the
Israeli defense minister saying that
they uh call on hasbalah not to provoke
a wider conflict so those were some of
the uh sort of overarching messages that
came out of that press conference let's
bring in Bernard Smith he's joining us
now uh from Tel Aviv so Bernard let's
just first start with uh the military
campaign Israel's war on Gaza what was
said in ation to that and and um you
know the US defense secretary as well as
the defense minister was saying that
they will transition into a a next phase
what is that and what more did they
say well there's obviously been a lot of
talk before this that there is uh
American eagerness us eagerness to see
Israel transition to a less intense
phase of the war to because of the high
very very high number of Civilian casual
uales that is uh that Israel's uh war is
exacting and there's a lot of pressure
uh on Israel from the US and from
outside to reduce the number of CI
civilian casualties so Lloyd Austin
began his press conference uh really by
saying by being of course fully backing
Israel by being heavily critical of
Hamas calling it one of the worst
atrocities of modern terrorism what
Hamas did on October the 7th but then he
went on to say that democracies are
stronger when we uph hold the laws of
war and he said we will continue to
ensure protection of civilians so there
was there was no offer of a a deadline
but um there was no suggestion of a time
scale of when Israel should start uh
reducing or changing its focus but there
were indications that Israel is looking
in that direction and even Galant
himself said that we will continue to
operate at different levels of intensity
so the first hint there that things may
change but no indication of any timeline
presumably because the Israelis and the
Americans don't want to give any
timeline away to their enemy but clear
emphasis that the US supports Israel in
this battle and uh Bernard there were
also some messages to uh the houthis in
Yemen as well
asbah in
Lebanon and in fact let me add on to
that apologies Bernard but Iran as well
yeah
yeah well there there is a risk there's
a US fear of this conflict uh spreading
wider in the region because of the
iran-backed Armed groups uh not just in
leban Lebanon but in Syria and in Yemen
as well and on Lebanon he was asked if
uh galand was asked if Israel is
planning to invade uh Southern Le
Lebanon to push Hezbollah back he said
there is no plan to do that but we have
70,000 internal refugees he's referring
to the Israelis displaced from their
homes along uh the northern border along
the border with Lebanon and he wants
them to be able to go home so he says
we're waiting for a diplomatic solution
but they can't wait a long time and on
the houes on uh the houthi attacks on
shipping going through the Red Sea and
heading up the seiz canal the US has
said as we've hinted before there is
exploring an option for a regional and
international force a maritime
protection Force in the Red Sea that
will offer protection to shipping so it
can because a lot of big shipping
companies are diverting their ships down
around the Africa Around the Horn of
Africa it costs a lot of money uh and it
delays shipping a lot there is
reluctance that it's going to be a
challenge to get the Gulf States and
Egypt and Jordan to back this but the
Americans want them to back it but you
have already the Emirates emiratis and
the Saudis uh looking to secure peace
deals with the with the houthis in in
Yemen so it's going to be challenging
for them but the US wants their backing
all right thank you Berard Smith for
that update from Tel Aviv